In this video we are gonna be taking a
look at Project Lombok. We've already
looked at it a little bit in the course.
We're gonna get into a little more in
depth in this section and as I was
researching this video I discovered the
island of Java. That's what Java, the
programming language, is actually named
after. So Java is an island in Indonesia.
Looks absolutely beautiful there. I've
never been there personally. The closest
I've come as Guam. So this is a beautiful
island and just to the east of it is the
island of Lombok. So they are very close
to each other. Here's a little map that
you can see the island of Java and then
the little red dot that is actually the
island of Lombok. So Lombok the project
was started sometimes slightly before
2009. I said Lombok is a name of a
island in Indonesia and Lombok also is
Indonesian for chilli I guess and if you
look at the Project Lombok website
you'll see that they have a little tag
line that says spicing up your Java. So
interesting how they worked everything
together there. Now Lombok itself what it
is doing it hooks into a annotation
process or API. So this allows... so I'll
hook into the java compiler process that takes the
raw source code, passes it to Lombok
which will actually perform code
generation for us.
So it allows these Lombok and the
workings to enhance Java code so at the
end it produces a completely compiled
Java class. You can see under target
classes, you can go in there you can see
any compiled class and if you're using
IntelliJ IntelliJ it does come with a
decompiler which will show you the source
code and you can see what Lombok did for
your class. So Lombok is a real time-saver.
It brings you a lot of
functionality. The source code compiled
does change and some IDs will get
confused by this. So this is probably
more of an issue for older IDEs. Modern IDEs
IntelliJ, Eclipse, Netbeans do support
Project Lombok. I personally do not use
Eclipse or NetBeans so I cannot speak to
their functionality. You might need to
install a plug-in for it. The newer
versions of IntelliJ are very good and
there's very nice support for Lombok. The
one nuance with IntelliJ is that you do
have to go to your compiler settings and
make sure that you've enabled annotation
processing so that's going to help
IntelliJ process those annotations from
Lombok and do that code development.
Without it, you'll probably see
things that aren't working properly
inside of your IDE. Your code will
compile and work as expected but the IDE
will say you're missing getters and
setters and stuff like that so that's
one symptomatic of where your annotation
processing has not been enabled. Now
right now we are on version 1.18.8
and this was just released on May 7th
2019. That's actually about a week ago
from when I'm recording this. Lombok
is evolving. There's stuff that's in
the pipeline. They are evolving the
projects. I know this videos can be
live for some time so I highly recommend
you take a look at the official
documentation. I'm giving you overview of
Lombok in this presentation. The
official documentation has a lot more
details than what I'm going to present
here. So let's talk about some of the
features. You get val and var. This allows
you to declare local variables or
mutable local variables. So pretty handy
very similar to features and other JVM
languages. So pretty handy to use here.
Now we can set up a @NonNull. This is
form like method parameters. This is
gonna make sure that they are not null. So
very handy and convenient if you
want make sure that an object that
you're passing into a method is not null.
Now @Cleanup - this is a handy utility
when you're using resources where you
have to close a connection. This will
generate a finally block and call a
closed on that method. So pretty pretty
nifty tool to use there. Then we have
getters and setters. These are pretty pretty
self-explanatory.
Allows you to define properties and then
Lombok it's gonna take care of that
boilerplate code of creating the getters
and setters for you. @ToString - this is a
very nice one to have. This is going to
generate a very nice ToString for your
class so it's going to generate the
class name and then the field names. So
this is real nice to have. And then
you do have optional parameter include
field names and also a call to the super
method if you've extended class.
@EqualsAndHashCode - this can be a thorn on our
sides of generating this code. There's a
lot of third-party implementations to
prevent hand rolling of it. Lombok will
help alleviate some of the pain points
from that. So I suggest you read the
documentation about exactly what it's
doing but these are pretty handy and you
do have some capabilities where you can
exclude specific properties. Now we also
have constructor helpers.
@NoArgsConstructor - that's going to generate
obviously a no args constructor. If
there are final fields that will cause a
compiler error but you can force that
through. I'm not sure why you'd want to
but you can do that. @RequiredArgsConstructor -
so this is going to create a
constructor for things that are just
required. There could be additional
properties which are not final or not
marked non null, that would not be
included. And then finally there's the
@AllArgsConstructor - so it gives you a
lot of capabilities as far as generating
constructors. And then the data
annotation. This is going to the scale
like a helper so this is going to
include @Getters, @Setters, @ToString,
@EqualsAndHashcode, and @RequiredArgsConstrutor
so very handy. You get those
five annotations rolled up in a simple
data annotation. Now we have @value. That's
a immutable variant of data. So all
fields are made private and final so
it's a nice handy one to use. And then
@NonNull, so if you pass in a parameter
that is null, you'll get a null pointer
exception thrown if you use that. @Builder,
this is like one of my favorite
annotations out of Project Lombok.
I've always liked using the builder
pattern. The Builder pattern is really
nothing new. It's been around for very
long
time. The problem that I've had with the
Builder Pattern is it is annoying to
actually implement. I've been around long
enough where you actually had to go and
hand code that Builder Pattern, so once
it was coded, it was really nice. It was
great to have. But there was a lot of
coding to implement a builder pattern so
that is a welcome feature of Project
Lombok. I used the Builder Pattern quite
frequently in my coding. @SneakyThrows
this will throw checked exceptions
without declaring them. @Synchronized  -so
this is a safer implementation of the
Java synchronized command. If you want to
get into the details of that I suggest
reading the documentation that's kind of
interesting what they're doing there and
why now. The @Getter annotation does have
a option to say lazy true. So if you have
some type of expensive operation that's
going to calculate a value for getter,
what lazy true is going to do, it'll
create a small cache and it'll go
through that expensive operation the
first time and populate the cache and
then if you call it again it's gonna
read from the cache. So, it could give you
a situation where it does help your
performance. @Log - this annotiation uses
Java util logger. You can see there I
have on the screen Java util loggers
are awful. I'm not a fan of that logging
framework.
I personally link towards @Slf4j. This
is the simple logging facade or facade.
Some people like to say for logging I
prefer using @Slf4j because
through this it abstracts the underlying
logging framework. Spring Boot by default
is going to use log back. You might want
to use log4j or some type of other
logging implementation but SLF4J
will allow you to swap out different
logging framework. So that is my
preferences to use SLF4J which
abstracts your logging framework. So if
at some point in the future you want
change you just change the configuration
rather than your source code. Now Project
Lombok does have a number of
experimental features. These are kind
of interesting what the project team is
doing. I say use these at your own risk.
I do not recommend using experimental
features in production. These are fun to
experiment with. The problem is these
might not be stable. They might be buggy
and the API
is likely to change. So when you upgrade
Lombok you could be breaking things in
the future. These are kept in a package
has marked experimental and if you know
the Project Lombok website, they have a
whole section on the experimental
features. So again, there's some pretty
interesting stuff with the experimental
features but don't use that in anything
that you can be using in production. It's
fine to experiment with, try them out, see
how they're working. Just be aware that I
wouldn't say put this into production
type code with the experimental features
because they could be buggy and the API
is likely to change and break things to
further down the road.